Two Americas (July 31, 2014)

By Lou Holtz (Coach, and a great American)

The Democrats are right, there are two Americas. The
America that works, and the America that doesn't. The
America that contributes and the America that doesn't.
It's not the haves and the haven not's, it's the dos and the
don'ts. Some people do their duty as Americans, obey the
law, support themselves, contribute to society, and others
don't. That's the divide in America. 

It's not about income inequality, it's about civic irresponsibility.
It's about a political party that preaches hatred, greed and victimization
in order to win elective office. It's about a political party
that loves power more than it loves its country.

That's not invective, that's truth, and it's about time someone said it.

The politics of envy was on proud display a couple weeks
ago when President Obama pledged the rest of his term to
fighting income inequality. He noted that some people
make more than other people, that some people have higher
incomes than others, and he says that's not just. That is the
rationale of thievery. 

The other guy has it, you want it, Obama will take it for you. Vote Democrat. 
That is the philosophy that produced Detroit. It is the electoral
philosophy that is destroying America. It conceals a
fundamental deviation from American values and common
sense because it ends up not benefiting the people who
support it, but a betrayal.

The Democrats have not empowered their followers, they
have enslaved them in a culture of dependence and
entitlement, of victim-hood and anger instead of ability and
hope. The president's premise that you reduce income
inequality by debasing the successful seeks to deny the
successful the consequences of their choices and spare the
unsuccessful the consequences of their choices. Because, by
and large, income variations in society is a result of different
choices leading to different consequences. Those who
choose wisely and responsibly have a far greater likelihood
of success, while those who choose foolishly and
irresponsibly have a far greater likelihood of failure. Success
and failure usually manifest themselves in personal and
family income. You choose to drop out of high school or to
skip college and you are apt to have a different outcome
than someone who gets a diploma and pushes on with
purposeful education. You have your children out of
wedlock and life is apt to take one course; you have them
within a marriage and life is apt to take another course.
Most often in life our destination is determined by the
course we take.

My doctor, for example, makes far more than I do. There is
significant income inequality between us. Our lives have
had an inequality of outcome, but, our lives also have had
an inequality of effort. While my doctor went to college and
then devoted his young adulthood to medical school and
residency, I got a job in a restaurant. He made a choice, I
made a choice, and our choices led us to different outcomes.
His outcome pays a lot better than mine. Does that mean he
cheated and Barack Obama needs to take away his wealth?
No, it means we are both free men in a free society where
free choices lead to different outcomes.

It is not inequality Barack Obama intends to take away, it is freedom. 
The freedom to succeed, and the freedom to fail. There is no true
option for success if there is no true option for failure.
The pursuit of happiness means a whole lot less when you face
the punitive hand of government if your pursuit brings you
more happiness than the other guy. Even if the other guy
sat on his arse and did nothing. Even if the other guy made
a lifetime's worth of asinine and short sighted decisions.

Barack Obama and the Democrats preach equality of outcome as a right, 
while completely ignoring inequality of effort. 

The simple Law of the Harvest as ye sow, so shall ye
reap is sometimes applied as, "The harder you work, the
more you get." 

Obama would turn that upside down. Those who achieve are to be punished
as enemies of society and those who fail are to be rewarded as wards of society.
Entitlement will replace effort as the key to upward mobility in 
American society if Barack Obama gets his way.
He seeks a lowest common denominator society in which the
government besieges the successful and productive to foster
equality through mediocrity. He and his party speak of two
Americas, and their grip on power is based on using the
votes of one to sap the productivity of the other.
America is not divided by the differences in our outcomes,
it is divided by the differences in our efforts.

It is a false philosophy to say one man's success comes about
unavoidably as the result of another man's victimization.

What Obama offered was not a solution, but a separatism.
He fomented division and strife, pitted one set of Americans
against another for his own political benefit. That's what
socialists offer. Marxist class warfare wrapped up with a
bow. Two Americas, coming closer each day to proving the
truth to Lincoln's maxim that a house divided against itself
cannot stand. 

"Life is ten percent what happens to you and
ninety percent how you respond to it."

Coach, Lou Holtz
